Introduction :

Snakes and Ladders, known originally as Moksha Patam, is an ancient Indian board game for two or more players regarded today as a worldwide classic.
It is played on a game board with numbered, gridded squares. A number of "ladders" and "snakes" are pictured on the board,
each connecting two specific board squares. The object of the game is to navigate one's game piece, according to die rolls,
from the start (bottom square) to the finish (top square), helped by climbing ladders but hindered by falling down snakes.

What is the purpose of Snakes and Ladders:

The object of the game is to navigate one's game piece, according to die rolls, from the start (bottom square) to the finish (top square),
helped by climbing ladders but hindered by falling down snakes. The game is a simple race based on sheer luck, and it is popular with young children.

How Many snakes in the board :

Ten snakes in the Board. There are various variants of the 10x10 game in circulation, here is description of the board used for my experiments.
There are nine ladders and ten snakes.

Equipment :

The size of the grid varies, but is most commonly 8×8, 10×10 or 12×12 squares. Boards have snakes and ladders starting and ending on different squares;
both factors affect the duration of play. Each player is represented by a distinct game piece token. A single die is rolled to determine random movement
of a player's token in the traditional form of play; two dice may be used for a shorter game.

Gameplay :

Milton Bradley Chutes and Ladders gameboard c. 1952. The illustrations show good deeds and their rewards; bad deeds and their consequences.
Each player starts with a token on the starting square (usually the "1" grid square in the bottom left corner, or simply, off the board next
to the "1" grid square). Players take turns rolling a single die to move their token by the number of squares indicated by the die roll.
Tokens follow a fixed route marked on the gameboard which usually follows a boustrophedon (ox-plow) track from the bottom to the top of the playing area,
passing once through every square. If, on completion of a move, a player's token lands on the lower-numbered end of a "ladder", the player moves the
token up to the ladder's higher-numbered square. If the player lands on the higher-numbered square of a "snake" (or chute), the token must be moveddown to
the snake's lower-numbered square.

If a 6 is rolled the player, after moving, immediately rolls again for another turn; otherwise play passes to the next player in turn. The player who is
first to bring their token to the last square of the track is the winner.


Variations :

Variants exists where a player must roll the exact number to reach the final square. Depending on the variation, if the die roll is too large, the token
either remains in place or goes off the final square and back again. (For example, if a player requiring a 3 to win rolls a 5, the token moves forward
three spaces, then back two spaces.) In certain circumstances (such as a player rolling a 5 when a 1 is required to win), a player can end up further away
from the final square after their move, than before it.

In the book Winning Ways the authors propose a variant which they call Adders-and-Ladders which, unlike the original game, involves skill. Instead of tokens
for each player, there is a store of indistinguishable tokens shared by all players. The illustration has five tokens (and a five by five board).
There is no die to roll; instead, the player chooses any token and moves it one to four spaces. Whoever moves the last token to the Home space (i.e. the last number)
wins.


Mathematics of the game :

The cumulative probability of finishing a game of Snakes and Ladders by turn N
Any version of Snakes and Ladders can be represented exactly as an absorbing Markov chain, since from any square the odds of moving to any other square are
fixed and independent of any previous game history.[5] The Milton Bradley version of Chutes and Ladders has 100 squares, with 19 chutes and ladders.
A player will need an average of 39.2 spins to move from the starting point, which is off the board, to square 100. A two-player game is expected to end
in 47.76 moves with a 50.9% chance of winning for the first player.[20] These calculations are based on a variant where throwing a six does not lead to an
additional roll; and where the player must roll the exact number to reach square 100 and if they overshoot it their counter does not move.


Rules:
      1. Initally both the players are at starting position i.e. 0. 
         Take it in turns to roll the dice. 
         Move forward the number of spaces shown on the dice.
      2. If you lands at the bottom of a ladder, you can move up to the top of the ladder.
      3. If you lands on the head of a snake, you must slide down to the bottom of the snake.
      4. The first player to get to the FINAL position is the winner.
      5. Hit enter to roll the dice.


